Hi again.
Deep recurrent neural networks are useful
because they allow you to capture
dependencies that you could not have
otherwise captured using a shallow RNN.
In this video, you'll understand
the equations used when implementing these
deep RNNs, and I'll show you how that
factors in into the cost function.
So let's dive in.
I will show you how bidirectional
neural networks work and
how stacking RNNs together can
produce a deep neural network.
To illustrate the importance
of bidirectional RNNs,
take the following example.
I was trying really hard
to get a hold of blank.
Louise finally answered when
I was about to give up.
As a clever human,
you would be able to fill in the blank
without having to think very hard.
An RNN that propagates information
from the beginning to the end of
sequences would be able
to make a prediction too.
It would take the words
before the blank as input and
do its best to predict the missing word.
However, because Louise doesn't appear
until the beginning of the next sentence,
it would have to guess between her,
him, and them.
Bidirectional RNNs work in much
the same way that simple RNNs do.
They take an input sequence x and
make the predictions y-hat.
In the RNNs I showed you earlier,
the information flows from the beginning
to the end of the sequence.
However, you could have
another architecture
where the information flowed
from the end to the beginning.
Just imagine going from the future
to the present instead.
When information flows in both directions,
that's a bidirectional RNN.
It is important for you to know
that this isn't a cyclic graph,
which means that the information flows
independently in both directions.
So the computations from left to right
are completely independent of
the computations from right to left.
To get the predictions, y-hat,
in a bidirectional RNN,
you have to start propagating
information from both directions.
When you have computed both of
the hidden states for a time step,
you can get the prediction y-hat for
that time using this formula,
which is the same one used for
unidirectional or
vanilla RNNs, but
appending both hidden states this time.
After you compute all
the hidden states for
both directions, you can get all
of the remaining predictions.
Deep RNNs are similar to
regular deep neural networks.
Deep RNNs have a layer which
takes the input sequence x and
multiple additional hidden layers.
As you can see,
deep RNNs are just RNNs stuck together.
The intermediate connections pass
information through the values of
activations, just as in conventional deep
neural networks, but for every time step.
For vanilla deep RNNs,
you have the following two equations.
They're the same as the ones
that you have seen before.
But let's see how information
flows in this case.
First, you compute the hidden states for
the current layer.
Then you get the activations and pass
those values to the next hidden layer and
repeat this process.
In other words, at first,
you propagate information through time.
Then you go deeper in the network and
repeat the process for each layer
until you get to your predictions.
Now you've become familiar with the two
interesting and useful varieties of RNNs.
Bidirectional RNNs propagates information
through time from the future and
from the past.
Deep RNNs can help you solve more complex
tasks that aren't possible with shallow
neural networks.
Both architectures are relatively
simple compositions
derived from the vanilla RNN
model that you've already seen.
So it isn't such a big conceptual
leap to understand their math.